Germatik

Revision history

This program originally worked differently until version 2.00
Some of the revisions won't make sense because the feature was
removed or changed. Just a warning.

1.0.0  -  11-08-01
  original release

1.0.1  -  11-09-01
  fixed bug - files of different lengths were
  initialized anyway

  fixed bug - after files of different lengths were
  initialized, files of same lengths appeared to
  have different lengths

1.0.2  -  11-10-01
  fixed bug - the correct temporary file was not
  deleted when program was closed before the test
  had ended

  fixed bug - run-time error on minimize

  added feature - added picture in background

1.0.3  -  11-11-01
  added feature - umlaut characters and ss can be typed
  into guess box by holding down CTRL.

  added feature - minor interface updates

1.0.4  -  11-12-01
  fixed bug - umlauts could not be typed in "wrong"
  window.

1.0.5  -  11-16-01
  fixed bug - cursor was unable to move in guess box

  fixed bug - umlaut characters were only able to be
  added to the end of the word

2.0.0  -  11-21-01
  added feature - added program to create/edit lists
  of words. "ListEditor"

  added feature - now possible to save and load tests

  code improvement - now loads entire list of words into
  memory. Removes word from list when it is right.
  This speeds up choosing a word, and no file access
  after lists are initialized!

  fixed bug - now opens wrong window, and list editor
  window as modal. (Program pauses until window is closed)

  added feature - keeps track of streaks (longest
  and current)

  improvement - german and english words are saved in
  the same file. Now uses standard open/save dialog
  boxes to load the list. Size of window is now smaller.

  improvement - displays background in high
  color if you are running more than 256 colors,
  otherwise displays low color version.

  change - umlaut characters now must be typed by ALT

2.0.1  -  11-22-01
  fixed bug - didn't unload program from memory on
  exit when closed by X button

  code improvement - put umlaut code in a module instead
  of duplicating for each use. Decreases program size.

2.0.2  -  11-23-01
  fixed bug - run-time error when listEditor is resized
  too small

  improvement - both lists in listEditor scroll together
              - after item is changed, it is selected
              - after item is added, it is selected

2.1.0  -  11-26-01

  improvement - reduced size of code to change an entry
  in listEditor. List is now never cleared. Looks better.

  improvement - when removing a word in listEditor, now
  selects the word after the one removed. Makes removing
  multiple entries easier.

  fixed bug - runtime error when last word was removed
  in listEditor

  fixed bug - prevents commas from being entered in
  input box in listEditor. When saved, they create an
  error in the file.

  added feature - added function to combine two lists
  together in listEditor

  added feature - in listEditor, if noun isn't capitalized,
  asks you if you want it capitalized

  added feature - added large size mode for main form

  added feature - added option to do test in "test mode"
  where it asks you n words and then stops. If you get a
  word wrong, it won't appear again.

  added feature - added window to set test options such
  as "test mode" and "practice mode" and whether or not
  to ask the words randomly

  improvement - ignores leading and trailing spaces from
  words when guessed and when added or changed from a list

  added feature - pops up a message box if the noun is
  not capitalized before the wrong window pops up

  code improvement - added some remarks explaining code.
  No effect on user.

2.1.1  -  11-27-01

  code improvement - put code to determine if german word
  is a noun in a module. Also put some string functions
  in a module. Decreases program size.

  fixed bug - if word was guessed with leading spaces, and
  the noun was capitalized, and the word was wrong, then
  it still reminded you to capitalize the noun.

  fixed bug - wrong window didn't trim leading/trailing
  spaces from guess

2.2.0  -  12-01-01

  improvement - changed getWord sub to make it less likely
  to get the same word you just got wrong in the near future.
  Still needs improvement.

  added feature - (secret) if guess is blank, a dialog will sometimes
  be displayed with a random message.

  fixed bug - did noun check even when guess was less than five letters

  added feature - added option to ask the German words instead
  of the English.

  added feature - added option to turn off German spelling/grammar
  checking. Will be more useful in the future as more checking
  routines are added.

  fixed bug - in config form, automatically disables german grammar
  checking if asking the english words.

  improvement - minor design updates to config form

  fixed bug - wrong form now says "Correct English Word" or "Correct
  German Word" appropriately

  added feature - listEditor - does not add word if it is in either
  the German or English list already.

  added feature - listEditor - if first letter of german word is
  capitalized, asks you if it is a noun, if you say yes, asks which
  article to add.

2.30  12-1-01

  changed version numbering system

  fixed bug - previous filename was not saved after new list was
  created and not saved. This created a file access error when trying
  to start test again.

  added feature - displays filename of open file in title bar
  of appropriate windows.

  improvement - main window pops up faster after splash screen.

  added feature - added about dialog. Also displays free system memory.

  fixed bug - when listEditor checked to see if a word was already
  in the lists, it checked for any part of the word. This meant you
  could not have the entries "und - and" and "Grund - ground" in the
  same list

  fixed bug - listEditor - when a file was added, the filename was
  changed to the added file. Now remains the original file added to.

  fixed bug - listEditor - removed minimize button. This created a
  run-time error.

  fixed bug - listEditor - now cannot save an empty list

  fixed bug - listEditor - now updates title bar filename after save as

  fixed bug - changed getWord sub back to random. The previous way
  created a "subscript out of range" error

  added feature - strikes out wrong answer on wrong form

  added feature - added form from within listEditor to extract words
  from the open file and save to another.

  added feature - added keyboard shortcuts to most buttons

  added feature - added tooltips

  improvement - in all double lists (i.e. listEditor),
  opposite word is selected immediately

  improvement - list boxes scroll together better

  removed feature - removed saving and loading of tests. Will
  possibly put it back.

  added feature - added counter that displays how many words
  left until end of test

3.00  1-1-02

  added feature - added form to search a list for a whole or a
  part of a german or english word and display both if found.
  "Word Finder"

  improvement - changed getWord sub - asks wrong words only after
  all others have been asked. This fixes the problem of after
  getting a word wrong, having the same word appear right away.

  added feature - added form that pops up at the end of a test that
  displays all the words you got wrong. Also possible to save this
  list to a file for practice on problem words.

  added feature - now gives a score at the end of the test. Score
  is based on performance compared to the number of words in the
  list. Also keeps a list of the high scores in the registry.

  fixed bug - if somehow, you manage to try to open a file that
  doesn't exist, the program won't crash anymore

  code improvement - when unchecking "show photo," now loads an
  empty picture instead of a grey pixel from another form. Decreases
  file size slightly.

  added feature - now can immediately start a test by dragging the
  list of words onto the program icon

  added feature - now can load a list of words and start the test
  by dragging a file onto the main program window

  improvement - changed window starting positions to center

3.01  1-5-02

  improvement - changed 24-bit picture to a 256-color approximation.
  Still looks good, and reduces file size by a bunch.

  change - added my email and web address to about form

  added feature - when a new window is loaded, the previous one is
  hidden

  added feature - added minimize button to main form

3.02 1-12-02

  improvement - in listEditor, when you click on a word, change
  it, then hit enter (or Add), program asks you if you intend to
  change the word. Easier to change a word (instead of pressing
  "change")

  improvement - changed all window starting positions to center

  fixed bug - removed minimize and maximize buttons from forms

  fixeg bug - made all windows unsizeable

  fixed bug - changed my mind about hiding the previous window.
  No icon was displayed in the taskbar. Now only any window on top
  of main is hidden if another pops up.

  added feature - score window now displays your score over total
  possible score for this list

  fixed bug - if comma was entered as part of name when saving
  high score, major problem reading back score!!

3.03 1-21-02

  improvement - window that pops up after correct word is now a 
  sepatate form, not a message box. Doesn't beep anymore, and also
  appears in the center of the main form.

  improvement - when switched to large size mode, form is centered

  added feature - sometimes the guess button would accidently be
  selected, so now if you type a letter onto the button, it jumps
  to the guess box.

  added feature - added help menu item about umlauted characters.

  added feature - when in large size mode, the wrong form is also
  made large

  added feature - added menu option to view high scores

  added feature - on score form, new score is bold

  fixed bug - always checks to see if the file exists before opening.
  Prevents all unlikely program errors due to missing files.

  added feature - listEditor - now asks if you want to cancel closing

  improvement - listEditor - now can only save list if list has been changed

  fixed bug - when total possible score was calculated, it calculated it
  on the number of words in the list instead of the total number words
  it was going to ask you. If you were using test mode, the score would
  look very little.

  added feature - you can now start a test by double-clicking on the
  list of words you want to use

3.10  1-22-02

  added feature - added articleFinder, finds the article of a noun
  you input

  fixed bug - listEditor - it was possible to change a word to some
  word that existed already. Took out change button. Now you change
  a word by adding it, and it will ask you if you want to change.
  Now not possible (I think) to have a duplicate word at all.

  fixed bug - listEditor - word was not changed when user pressed
  add, and said yes to change.

  added feature = listEditor - when adding a word, also checks to
  see if the word exists with a different article.

  added feature - listEditor - when resized, it centers itself

  fixed bug - after viewing high scores, no new score was added

